# Golf-Visualizations

This was my capstone project for my Master's in Business Analytics program. The goal of this project was to create visuals for a major betting website that will help daily fantasy players and sports bettors get a better understanding of golfer performance.

## Executive Summary
LinQuest has several responsibilities and a broad range of specialties; one of those responsibilities is providing analytical solutions on sports data to their client for users to interact with and use at their discretion. In May 2021, they helped launch a new sports segment focused on golf on their client's site, and our goal is to provide them with data visualizations that intuitively explain player performance to the site users. Our team has developed these visualizations from what we found to be the most statistically significant golf metrics to golfer performance and developed them in a way that the average person on the site could view and understand. We have gained a keen understanding of the metrics throughout the project and figured out statistically what can describe and predict a 'good' round on the PGA Tour. With those understandings in place, our team has developed visualizations that display this information to the users.
All visualizations are programmed using the Python programming language. Once implemented into the client's environment, they will provide the users with helpful knowledge at the tip of their fingers. A traditional sports site will provide a multitude of tables filled with numbers, and without a prior understanding of the sport, someone may not be able to decipher what is good from the bad. Most users are looking to quickly make well informed decisions that will make them the most money. Not all of them know the game well enough to look at tables and piece together which player would be the best bet in any given circumstance. Therefore, we have provided LinQuest with five visualizations that work with the data from those tables to paint a picture for the users of how a golfer has performed in the past and under certain conditions. These visualizations were thought of outside of the box to look at only the most impactful golf metrics along with the most impactful course and weather attributes. Our vision was to allow a user to look at important golf metrics, and with the attributes for the upcoming tournament, look to see how those metrics change with the change of attributes. This allows the user to form their own educated decision on how a player may perform, but we are leading them toward how we feel they will perform given past data. With the approval from LinQuest, we expect that some if not all our products will go into operation and draw the attention of outside users because our products will give them an edge over the competition.

Notes on the project and files:
- Limitations: we are not allowed to reveal the name of the site or share the data, as we do not own the data; we are, however, allowed to share the python scripts and the visuals we created
- LG1_finalPaper.pdf goes in depth about the background, methodology, visualizations, and deliverables
- The .py files are the python scripts to create our visualizations and process the data
- The .html files are examples of what the final product looks like since they can't be created by the python scripts without the data
